Terraform section docs changes (#3804)
weaveworks/weave-gitops: website/docs/terraform/terraform-intro.mdx

---
title: Introduction to Terraform Controller
hide_title: true
---

# Overview

> [Terraform Controller](https://github.com/weaveworks/tf-controller) (TF-Controller) is a reliable tool for managing your infrastructure and application resources using the GitOps approach, all at your own pace. An open source project created by Weaveworks, the makers of [Flux](https://fluxcd.io), TF-Controller follows patterns established by Flux and integrates with Weave GitOps. 

Reviewer: It would be good to update the Overview section in https://weaveworks.github.io/tf-controller/ to remove the word `experimental` from `TF-controller is an experimental controller..`. I feel it contradicts somewhat what we state here i.e. `reliable`.

TF-Controller makes the following GitOps models available to suit your specific needs:

  * **Drift Detection:** Use GitOps for drift detection so that you can decide which actions to take when drift occurs.
  * **GitOps Automation:** Fully automate the GitOps process, including provisioning and enforcement, for all of your Terraform resources.
  * **Hybrid GitOps Automation:** GitOps-ify certain parts of your existing infrastructure resources, such as a nodegroup or security group in an existing EKS cluster.
  * **State Enforcement:** Use GitOps to enforce an existing `tfstate` without making any other changes.

To get started with TF-controller, simply follow the provided [getting started](get-started-terraform.mdx) guide. You can also find [extensive documentation here](https://weaveworks.github.io/tf-controller/)—it covers API references, CLI references, and [how-to's](https://weaveworks.github.io/tf-controller/use_tf_controller/) for common situations.

With Weave GitOps Enterprise, you can manage `Terraform` objects the same way you can with `Kustomization` and `HelmReleases`:

> ![WGE Enterprise dashboard showing Terraform view](/img/dashboard-terraform.png)

Reviewer: I would have preferred to see a non-empty table here.

    and runs inside the specified Namespace. These settings enable the soft multi-tenancy model, usable within
    the Flux multi-tenancy setup.
  * **GitOps Automation for Terraform**: Setting `.spec.approvePlan=auto` allows a `Terraform` object
    to be reconciled and act as the representation of your Terraform resources. TF-controller uses the spec of
    the `Terraform` object to `plan` and `apply` its associated Terraform resources. It then stores
    the `TFSTATE` of the applied resources as a `Secret` inside the Kubernetes cluster. After `.spec.interval` passes,
    TF-Controller checks for drift between your live system and your Terraform resources and, if affirmative, automatically generates and applies a plan to correct it.
  * **Drift detection**: Enabled by default, and part of the GitOps automation feature, the controller detects and fixes infrastructure drift based on the Terraform resources and their `TFSTATE`. You can use the field `.spec.disableDriftDetection` to disable this behaviour. Drift detection-only mode, without `plan` or `apply` steps, allows you to perform read-only drift detection.

>   * **Plan and Manual Approve**: Separate the `plan` from the `apply` step, just like in the Terraform workflow you are familiar with—but in a GitOps way. When a plan is generated, the controller shows you a message asking if you want to apply it. Pptionally create and push the change to a new branch for your team member to review and approve too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Plan and Manual Approve**: Separate the `plan` from the `apply` step, just like in the Terraform workflow you are familiar with—but in a GitOps way. When a plan is generated, the controller shows you a message asking if you want to apply it. Optionally create and push the change to a new branch for your team members to review and approve too.
```
